Hey, I'm Neil Patel and welcome to the
marketers roundt where leading marketing
experts from around the world speak
about what's happening in today's world.
And today I have the privilege of being
with Nikki and Chad from NP digital to
talk about search everywhere
optimization.
>> Hi, I'm Chad Gilbert. I'm vice president
of content marketing at NP Digital.
>> Hi, I'm Nikki Lamb, head of SEO at NP
Digital.
>> Today is our first episode of the
marketing roundt and we're going to be
talking about search everywhere
optimization. Dude, you know, I learned
about search optimization first seeing
it from you, Nikki. And where did you
first learn about it?
>> So, I read about it on search engine
land uh from a blog post from an Ashley
Liddell who founded uh deviation agency
in the UK.
>> Girl or guy? Because I know Ashley can
get both ways.
>> Guy. Yeah. His co-founder Sam uh
co-founded Deviation Agency and they're
all about bringing together so social
search and brand. So very cool concept
from him. But I will say you learned
about it from me. When you started
talking about it, everybody started
talking about it. So a lot of people
give you credit even though you didn't.
>> No, no, no. I I Yeah, I never created
it. I learned it from you and I wasn't
sure if you learned it from someone else
or saw it on an article like on search
engine journal or search engine land or
anything like that.
>> Yeah. But who cares who came up with it?
It's important for every brand and I
think every marketing agency should be
talking to their clients about it
>> and it is more than just one engine now.
It is everywhere. So, it was the natural
>> totally language, right? Like
>> and props to Ashley for coming up with
it.
>> Yeah.
>> Most people want to talk about AI SEO or
like ranking on Chad GPT to be very
specific. I really haven't seen too many
people care about perplexity. After Chad
GPT, they talk about Gemini, but when we
actually talk to companies, I don't even
think most of them know where Gemini
even lives,
>> right? Like when you talk to them about
Gemini, they're just like, "Uh, so
Gemini is just ranking on Google."
>> No, honestly, right, that's what like I
don't think most people know where
Gemini lives
>> because they don't have to know because
it's not driving traffic for brands.
Looking at our NP digital clients, chatt
is driving
>> almost all of it,
>> 85 95% of their AI referral traffic. So
marketers haven't really had to care
about Gemini because it's just not
having the market share that Chacha BT
has.
>> Yeah. And do you think that with these
AI platforms that people are going to
call it a SEO, GEO,
uh
>> EIO? Yeah. Who knows? AEO because I know
HubSpot's big on answer engine options.
I've been
>> profound. Profound is big on
>> AEO.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I don't know what they're going to
call it. What do you think is going to
stick? I personally think calling it AI
search optimization makes sense because
then there's no confusion about what
you're talking about. Sometimes you say
GEO to somebody and they're like, "What
is that? What does that mean? That
confuses me." If you just say AI search
optimization, everybody gets it.
>> Yeah, I agree with that.
Now, when you look at these platforms,
all right, and the client ends up
saying, "Hey, I'm looking for AI SEO or
GE or SEO." I personally go with
whatever vernacular the potential
customer wants to talk about because
SEOs have this take that it's all the
same. It should just be called SEO. And
I'm really in it where it's like, well,
if you want the business, you better
adapt because if you don't adapt,
someone else is they're going to go to
someone else who offers what they're
looking for. Even though it could be the
same thing, they're just calling
something different,
>> right?
>> But I've been seeing a lot of SEOs
online saying, I don't know why you guys
are all calling it anything different.
It's the same thing. There's no
difference from doing SEO on Google with
SEO on ChatG. Now, before I break down
what I think, do you guys really think
they're identical? It's the same exact
thing.
>> No. No,
>> they're not identical. I think
crossovers.
>> Yeah. The argument is that a lot of the
tactics and best practices that work for
years on Google also help you with chat
GBT. But a couple of things, JavaScript,
right? If you've got a JavaScript heavy
website, these AI crawlers can't see
your content. So that's a fundamental
technical difference between visibility
for traditional Google and you know AI
models like chatpt. The other thing is a
lot of studies show that the the most
cited websites in ChachiPT once you get
through the big ones right YouTube and
Reddit and you know the biggest brands
in the world after that there's like not
a high crossover between the brands
ranking best in SEO and the brands
ranking best in places like Chachu BT. I
want to say the last study I saw was
like 19% crossover. Um, and maybe it's
because those 19% are doing SEO and a
lot of the other brands aren't investing
in SEO, but if it were the same exact
thing, then you would see a higher
percentage of crossover. Now, that
doesn't mean, I think, that there aren't
a lot of similarities. Like, when we
look at what's working, we're doing a
lot of 90day GEO sprints for clients all
across the globe right now, and we're
getting phenomenal results. A lot of the
tactics are things that we might have
done if it were just an SEO campaign
anyway,
>> like building back links and mentions
offline for the brand and connecting it
to those publishers. One thing that I
think is interesting is you look back at
SEO 10, 15 years ago with, you know, the
black hat SEO backlink building tactics
that would inject visibility for Google,
right? We're seeing some of those same
sites that might be considered spammy
these days that are actually providing
visibility in LLMs. So, I think that
that'll pro they'll probably start
cracking down on that because when you
look at what some of those publishers
have, it is a spam site.
>> It it really is cuz right now I see a
lot of companies and I wouldn't say this
is spam. It depends how you want to
classify it. I see a lot of companies
releasing blog posts on their own
website.
>> Yes.
>> That are listicles. So, whatever they're
selling, it could be a service or
product and they're just ranking
themselves number one. Y and it's
causing the LLM to site them more. Now,
I wouldn't say that's spam. I would say
that's somewhat biased content because
who's not going to rank themselves
number one? If you don't want to rank
yourself number one, props to you for
being really honest and truthful. But I
haven't met a company today that
wouldn't rank themselves number one. I'm
assuming you guys agree with this. Yes.
>> And that causes you to get mentions on
these LLMs. But I don't think that'll
carry forward,
you know, call it a year from now.
Yes, Google is definitely losing ground
as the way that people start search
because I have the chatbt app on my
phone and when I need anything for the
most part I go right to chatbt because I
know that it's going to be better
quality information.
>> But what do you go for? You just said
information like what are you actually
using chat GBT for versus Google?
>> I'm using ChatgBT to do what I used to
do as a Google search, right? Uh last
night my husband and I were like, "What
age does our kid get out of a car seat
and into a booster?" And he was googling
and he's like, "This answer doesn't make
any sense. It's not giving me the right
information." I said, "That's because
you're using Google and not CatchBT."
And guess who gave us the right answer
that we were looking for? Super fastt.
>> But did you try AI mode?
>> Ah, you know what? That's a good point.
I don't know why I'd never think to use
AI mode. And I think this is why our
clients at NP Digital are seeing their
AI referral traffic come from Chat GPT.
It's not coming from Gemini. It's not
coming from Perplexity. They
>> they won the brand and mind share game.
>> Yeah.
>> But let's go back. You use it
forformational searches
>> and a lot more than that, right?
>> Okay. So, what's a lot more? Is it like
you're wearing jeans? Would you buy
jeans from Ted G? did purchase something
recently from Chachi, didn't you?
>> I did get the best pillow ever. It was
like a $200 pillow, which seems crazy,
but I was having neck pain for like a
year. And finally, I was like, "Why do I
have neck pain? Maybe I need a new
pillow." To chat BT, I said, "I have all
these things. I had got a car accident
before. I have neck pain. Is it my
pillow? Oh, it might be my pillow. What
pillows do you recommend?" It gave me
this pillow recommendation.
Life-changing. I will tell every single
person to buy this pillow. I need to
find out what the pillow is.
>> Do I remember the brand of the pillow?
No. But every time I tell somebody about
the pillow, when they're interested, I
go back. I look at my, you know, my
purchase and then I tell them
life-changing pillow.
>> So, I'm actually pulling this up from my
chat GBT right now. I don't use the app.
I just go to chatgbt.com, but I should
use the app because I keep typing in
chat go like it puts that in. I'm
assuming O is next to P on the keyboard.
or I need to. So I have asked this so
many times in variation of this like my
upper back hurts after sleeping on a
firm mattress. I tried buying a softer
mattress but it still hurts. What else
can I try? And this is a thread when I
sleep at a hotel my back is usually
fine. And like I have so many uh
conversations with Chad Jvi about my
back. I have no joke change out the
mattresses in my whole house. My kids
mattresses, my mattress.
>> They work. Um, my kids feel better. My
wife's cool. I even bought like a
topper. I tried buying toppers on the
old mattress. Um, I got rid of the
topper, slept with just the mattress,
and my wife now likes the topper, and my
back doesn't hurt without the topper.
So, I use Chat GBT a lot like you, but
mine is purely forformational searches
when I'm trying to solve problems.
But what did you make purchases based on
the chat GPT recommendations? It sounds
like you made many.
>> I have, but not purchases that chat GBT
recommended me. I use it to help me
problem solve and then I tend to go to
Google and Amazon to find what I'm
looking to buy. I know they integrate
with commerce, but it's a interface
and I don't want to use it.
>> We're not there yet.
>> I don't think we're anywhere near there
yet. Like
>> it's not just we're not there yet. I
think we're so far and we're ingrained
in our head to just go to amazon.com and
type in what we're looking for and price
shop. Cuz if Chad GBT recommends
something for me, I'll probably find
something that's just like it on Amazon
and I can read a review and it's half
the cost.
>> But the pillow that I bought, Chat GPT
direct linked me to the product on
Amazon and I looked at it, it had
phenomenal reviews. I bought it right
away.
>> Text me the pillow link.
>> I'm going to get I'll get you that
pillow. For me in my searches, I mainly
use it forformational
product based searches. No. For general
searches like um I was just looking up
currency exchange. I'm not going to go
to chat GBT for that.
>> No.
>> If I'm looking to send money to another
country, I'm not going to go to chat GPT
for it. I still find myself using
Google.
>> And when you go back to these searches
like the car seat or I'm curious on the
searches you do, I tend
If I look at how Google worked in the
past, I still use it for a lot of the
searches I used to. Now my searches are
becoming more complex
>> on Google
>> uh on chat GBT sometimes in AI mode. But
there's this whole new slew of searches
that I'm starting to perform that I
never search
>> before. Yeah.
>> And I think that's the new evolution of
search. But we're still doing a lot of
our old searches and Google's data that
shows that they now have over uh what 5
trillion searches a year. What 13.7
billion a day?
>> Yeah, it's increasing.
>> It's increasing. We're still using a lot
of our old type of searches at least
based on Google's data. still using
Google, but there's a new type of search
that we're performing now that's very
in-depth, that's very specific, problem
oriented, and you're looking for very in
or you're looking for a solution based
on a very uh specific problem that you
can go really in-depth on. And I think a
lot of us are using chat GPD for that.
Yep, that's how I do it. And I still
definitely go to Google um and I use AI
mode in Google, but for those problem
solving experiences where the prompt is
deep and there's a lot of layers to it
and there's follow-ups, that's chatt.
And I think I go there first more when
I'm at work because I am doing that in
at work more often is solving those
problems or figuring out those things,
connecting dots in different ways. And
then on a personal side, I think I
typically will go to Google first still
versus a chat GPT because I'm doing
something different at home than I am
when I'm working. So that's like my
split I feel.
>> So here's what I would tell a client.
Who cares what you do, you do, or what I
do? Their audience should dictate what
they do. So if we have an
>> brand who whose average consumer is 28
to 35 years old, guess where those you
know that that's a random range that I
picked, but like the younger
generations, they're chatting, that's
what they call it, right? They chat
everything. They are not going to use
Google. And our kids, Neil, our kids are
probably not going to use Google.
>> No, they use voice. Do your kids search
uh through voice yet?
>> Too young. My gosh. But yours probably
do.
>> Yes. They don't understand the typing
>> and I think so.
>> Yeah. Because then you're not going to a
platform. It's whatever's connected with
the device that you're using which
>> Siri then
>> uh it's either Siri or Alexa.
>> Alexa.
>> But my take on if Google is going to be
the main search engine
>> is similar to yours but with a little
bit of a twist. So when people ask me
I'm in agreement. I actually tell them
who cares if Google wins or Chad GBT
wins. Be everywhere. Right. which goes
into search everywhere optimization. I
have a little bit of a different take.
So, if you're telling me ages 18 to 38
are not on Google or uh not on a
specific platform, so don't pull from
there, but they're using Chat GPT. I
would tell them you still need to be on
Google and they would be like, why? I be
like, well, Google Chad GBT scrapes
Google. Or like the other day, I was
talking to a customer
>> and there was like our customers are not
on Tik Tok. I don't care that search
search is blowing up on Tik Tok.
I don't think that it's worth us being
on Tik Tok. Our our competitors aren't.
And I'm like, you just wait which LLM or
search engines have data deals with Tik
Tok. And if no one's on Tik Tok and
you're on Tik Tok and it's part of the
algorithm, it doesn't matter if you're
get no buyers from Tik Tok, just having
content on there and being on there. A
lot of the other platforms where you do
get customers will pull from Tik Tok.
So, they're more likely to site you than
the competitors who are not indexing on
that one channel. and you are.
So, a cool thing I like to do for brands
like that is go to a tool like Uber
Suggest, Semrush, type in that brand's
domain, and see how many uh Tik Tok
videos rank for the keywords that they
rank for and that they want to rank for
because a lot of brands are surprised if
you think about the way that page one of
Google looks now. There's this SER
feature called what people are saying
and it's full of Tik Tok and YouTube and
Instagram and LinkedIn and they might
not realize that for things they want to
rank for keywords that they really care
about, Google is putting these social
networks right on page one. So they
might not think that their audience is
into these channels, but page one of
Google is going to first of all reflect
what users behavior is, right? So if
it's on page one of Google,
>> that's for a reason, right? But also,
it's really surprising sometimes to
these companies how often Tik Tok in
some cases or LinkedIn or Instagram
might have the same share of voice as
that domain for their target keyword
set. So, it's always really interesting
to look at that and let the data tell
the story.
>> If you look at what Google's doing,
there's a lot of different vernaculars,
but a lot of marketers just believe
like, oh yeah, that's just like Google
suggest, which is the same thing as
people also ask. And I'm like, uh,
there's some differences and nuances
with these areas. And if you look at
what they're showcasing because people
also ask is just mainly showcasing more
terms that terms that or yeah, textbased
terms that people are searching for. Um,
and what you're talking about is
actually pulling content from different
platforms like social media. So even
though your audience may not be on Tik
Tok, if you pull if you create content
for Tik Tok, Google pulls from there and
Google has your ideal audience even
though Tik Tok does it. Boom. You may
get a leg up compared to your
competition.
>> Yep. Exactly.
>> And then same with search. Like
Instagram has 6.5 billion searches a
day. Although most people are searching
for friends. Uh but a portion of the
people are looking for starting to
become people looking for products,
inspiration. Yeah. Um, and they're
they're actually looking for content
that can help them solve problems. Like
I've done searches for other cool
marketing tools for on Instagram for
creating content for social, right? So
even B2B searches, small percentage of
searches, but they have so many. I do
believe social search is going to be
powerful once Meta figures out their
act. And the reason I say that is meta
search feature in Instagram and
Facebook. It really does suck in my
opinion. I they they've invested
billions and billions in these data
centers and stuff and buying these AI
companies, but I believe their search
functionality isn't that great compared
to the competition. Yeah. And companies,
we get head up for this all the time,
are craving to rank when people search
on social media. Like if you're Louis
Vuitton, they want to make sure their
handbag shows up anytime people are
searching for handbags. And the content
that you create for social, for search,
in many cases is different than the
content you would create for virality.
Two very different things that a lot of
companies just think, oh, you just
create content, goes viral, you'll be at
the top of all the search. It doesn't
work that way.
>> One final point though, there's two
aspects of social search. There's people
that are actively searching something,
right? Which might be me. If I'm trying
to pick a hotel or a vacation
destination, I search Instagram all the
time. But guess how many products I buy
all the time that I didn't even think I
wanted or needed. Never did a search,
but I scan content on Instagram. I'm
like, I need that
>> all the time. So, there's this like
passive search where it's like, oh,
there's some like, what did I just buy
the other day? Some like really cool
probiotic. like it just, you know, I see
it so many times and then I'm like, I
need a probiotic and I'm just I'm going
to buy this one because it keeps, you
know, it's in front of me every day. So,
it's a passive thing, too.
>> We we did a survey on NP digital and it
we had data on what percentage of your
customers come from organic search, low
singledigit percentile max. And then we,
you know, we got data on what percentage
of your customers first found you from
social, organic social, and it was like
uh around 20%. It's kind of crazy on the
amount of people that discover on
search, but it's so hard to attribute no
matter how amazing of a data and
analytics team that you have where
>> it doesn't show up in the data and
people take it for granted. Now, going
back to content, Chad, if you were
trying to create content for social
search, not social views and
impressions, but actually search like
intentbased,
how would you create content differently
than just traditional social content?
>> Yeah, I mean, that's a great question.
What we would do first and foremost is
take a look at the platform itself,
right? There's keywords and information
and data that we can pull directly from
the platform and then build a strategy
around that. So it's platform specific.
It could be crossed over cross over with
some of the SEO or search everywhere
experience that we are we're driving,
but you need to make sure that you're
putting that social lens onto it. So
whether it be a tool you're using to
find out some of those trending topics
or maybe something's trending on a
hashtag that your brand can can latch on
to all of that information you need to
gather and audit and build specific
content that then fills those gaps from
your brand's perspective or that's
filling that white space that is on that
specific platform. So it's just putting
that extra layer of the data that's
coming from those platforms whether it
be the platform itself or you know
different tools that can pull from that.
>> Yeah. And then the intent as well,
right? Because when someone's searching,
there's a very different intent than
just uh scrolling through videos and
watching. And a lot of times the videos
that you create that are shorts don't
necessarily have the intent that's
around the topic someone would be
searching for. Yes,
>> I do think that Reddit is going to have
a longer shelf life in visibility and
influencing LLMs because it is the
natural conversation that happens in
that platform that people are typically
searching in that in that way, shape and
form on those channels and it's pulling
from that. So, there are appropriate
ways for brands to enter Reddit and not
to do this what you would claim to
spammy. Yes, I agree with you, but there
are ways that brands can enter Reddit
now as a branded profile to offer
support, offer help in that platform. I
like to call Reddit the social media
channel that's not a real social media
channel and it's the review site that's
not a real review site from all these
anonymous individuals, right? But there
is a gold mine of content and
information and conversations in there
that brands can learn from but also can
join the conversation and change that
conversation. But going back to Reddit,
whether it's Reddit or Core, any of
those community-based sites, we have a
chart that showcas how the Chad GBT
started indexing or citing Reddit less
frequently than they used to. Reddit
stock also tanked from that as well.
It's still one of the topictions
even if it is
>> Wikipedia a lot more. Yeah. But the real
question is is this is just my take
because it's more easily manipulatable
than a lot of the other sources out
there like a expert site talking about a
company. I believe they'll still index
on Reddit or Core or whatever, you know,
community that is comm or whatever
social network that is communitydriven
that's uh they can get access to the
data. I bet you they would index more on
Facebook and Instagram if they would
sell the data, but they don't sell the
data to their competitors. I just think
Chat GBT, just like we saw a drop. I
believe in 2026 and beyond, it'll still
be a source they site, but I believe
over time they're going to site it less
and less frequently because it's a site
and a channel that is much more easier
for marketers to manipulate.
>> But I think Reddit's doing a decent job
at making it harder to manipulate
because we work with big brands and we
have to figure out how do you get in
there? How do you maintain a profile?
boot and they're doing a decent job at
kicking stuff out when they know it's
spammy, when they know that you're not
who you say you are.
>> But I still see a lot of spam through
Reddit. They're not catching
>> all the nefarious characters.
>> Yes. And when people pull up opinions on
a specific industry, they're citing
Reddit too heavily over industry
publications. And the feedback on Reddit
is really biased because it's the type
of community that loves to hate.
>> Yes, that's also true. It's not a
community that loves to talk positively
about a lot of stuff. They love going
there to hate more than talk positively
about something.
>> But what's really cool is some of our
clients at NPD have brand evangelists
who love their products, love their
brands, and they are willing to go into
Reddit on behalf of those brands and
speak positively about their
experiences. And I'm not talking getting
paid to do this or setting up a branded
profile to pretend to be the brand.
They're saying, "We love your product so
much, we'd be happy to go in and correct
all of this misinformation." So, I think
and that might be more of an exception
than a rule, but I think I I'm hopeful
that Reddit can remain a part of the way
that people assess brands online through
AI. Because personally, when I'm booking
a hotel in Cabo and I want to know like
how is the food, like I don't just trust
what Google tells me. I'm like, I want
to hear the raw, you know, real insights
about what people thought and I kind of
want the bad stuff from Reddit, you
know, like people had a really bad
experience. I kind of want to hear about
it along with all the good stuff. So,
I'm hopeful that we'll get it figured
out and that it can be a trusted way to
get like the real raw information that
consumers might be looking for. But to
your point though on the negative effect
of Reddit and people going there for
that a lot of the brands that we do
support in Reddit or have started to
talk to us about Reddit is is because of
that negative sentiment that they're
seeing being pulled in from Reddit and
there is a lot of it right. So that
that's you know going to your point
people are following creators right
people are following and trusting these
individuals in their own social native
platforms and they're deciding to buy
things or make decisions because they
trust these people. So it's an authority
play right?
>> They trust these unique creators that
they've been following for so long and
they build that relationship with them
the creators with their audience. So I
do think that that has a profound impact
today on how people are searching
whether or not they're going there first
or as a part of their journey definitely
a part of their journey but I do think
more and more authoritative social
creators in in certain spaces are
getting a leg up right now with their
audience. I think with UGC created
content the big problem is a lot of
people are sponsored by a brand so it's
not as authentic. I'm not saying it's
the majority. I don't have the data on
what percentage, but the problem that
you see with UGC generated content is
it has to be done in a way where it's
real and authentic. It's like Nikki
earlier talked about the pillow and if
she created a video on that pillow and
how amazing it was and she no longer has
pain. That's really useful.
>> That's helpful. And it's like, oh, cool.
Nikki was able to solve her back pain
from this. And these social platforms
know I'm looking at videos like that are
chiropractic related, sleeping related,
back pain related. So they're going to
recommend new cond for me. And when you
look at these search platforms, I hope
they're pulling in the stuff that is
authentic and real and not highly
produced because with the laws at least
in the US and in Europe, I don't know
every single country, but majority of
the larger countries from a GDP
perspective, they have disclosure rules
and AI can quickly detect if it is paid
or not paid. And as long as they can
eliminate that kind of stuff from
search, I think that becomes really
valuable because who doesn't want to see
someone else that is similar going
through a similar problem and describing
how they feel? And to me, that's more
valuable than just reading a textbased
review on Amazon.
>> Well, also data from Forbes and Earketer
both show that brand loyalty is
declining. And that's because you would
you're going to sift through the 10 blue
links on Google. Well, now it's an AI
overview, right? Or this creator
content, like you you have a couple of
options to find what you're looking for.
And people now trust creators, people
that they're seeing on TikTok that
they've never met before more than this
brand being like, "Hey, we've got the
best pillow." You know, if they see it
on a video, they're they're likely to
trust it. Um, and that loyalty is
declining. So, people are willing to try
new products because somebody else said
that it's great. And maybe there's, you
know, some gray areas where it's like,
is this sponsored or not? And you know,
I think the best um the regulations in a
lot of countries like help you believe
that somebody will disclose if they're
getting paid for it, but I'd rather
passively see a few ads on TikTok and be
like, you know what, I trust it. I'm
going to try it. Then read 10 blog posts
from probably an aggregator who's also
paid to promote the pillow anyway. So,
and then with brands that are with your
statement, the brand loyalty declining
and these creators are now coming in and
taking some of that trust and actually
influencing smart brands are actually
starting to work with those creators too
in different ways. Not just paying them
to go and promote the product, but
actually looping them into their
marketing and strategy and content plays
in a new in a new way that feels a
little different. Yes, there's paid
experiences with that still, but it's
feeling and looking a little different
than it did 10 years ago with the
influencer play.
Blog content is still helpful in today's
search landscape because we know that to
be present across all of these new
surfaces where people are searching AI
overviews, Google still has a lot of
market share, right? Uh chatbt,
you have to build up topical authority
in the subject that you want to be an
expert on. And there's a million
questions that people are asking about
how to solve their neck pain with
pillows, right? And if you haven't
written a bunch of blogs, you're not
going to be a topical authority. You're
probably not going to rank on Google and
you're probably not going to get cited
in these AI platforms. So blogs might be
serving a little bit of a different
purpose than they once were because we
know that in a lot of cases like the
clicks might not get there, but you
can't be an authority in a subject if
you have no content on your website.
Yes, the community stuff that you might
want to do on Reddit, the social stuff
that you're doing are also important,
but they don't replace the value of
creating blog content in my opinion.
>> Agree. Double down on that 100%. And
brands search everywhere doesn't mean
everywhere for every single brand.
Everywhere depends on where your
audience is going. So if your audience
is overindexing in certain communities,
in addition to the blog content
experience that you just described, you
do need to go into those communities. is
you do need to figure out how to be a
part of that if that's where your
audience is.
>> Yeah. I I don't see text going away. I
see text being super important, but like
you said, it's changed. People used to
create text for visitors and then you
try to get them to convert through
popups, through links within the
content, through sidebar ads or
carousels at the bottom of the text,
sending them to other pages or product.
>> Those sounds familiar.
>> Yes.
I at this point I believe you need the
text for traffic. some of those same old
purposes, but it doesn't work as well as
it used to from that aspect. Still does
drive results though,
>> but you also need it for topical
authority, so that way you get the brand
mentions and citations.
>> And then you also need the video
content, which they don't index as
heavily on. And you need a combination
of both, whether it's UGC or the
companies creating it themselves, to get
out there and get the mentions and
really be the endall source for that
topic.
>> For sure. And I think you hear the
words, you know, blog post and you think
of like, you know, oh, some 12,000 word
crap text based thing, but a good blog
post today might be so much more than it
was 5 or 10 years ago, right? We are
doing
>> custom data studies and pulling in
proprietary data and creating that type
of unique content. um if you're thinking
about it in the right way and you're
starting with the outcome in mind, which
that type of content with proprietary
data, unique data, insights that not
everybody else is talking about, that's
what allows you to go get brand
mentions. It it can be the the stuff
that you're pitching to the media. Um so
it doesn't a blog post doesn't have to
mean some boring thousandword thing
that's been done a million times before.
In fact, of course, it shouldn't today.
You
>> you nailed it. We have a chart on this.
Facts, stats, and data. The number one
reason that companies are being cited in
AI overviews, uh, from the study that we
ended up doing, it's writing a blog post
isn't about length. It's about quality.
Quality means a lot to a lot of
different people. I know it's a really
vague term, but it's about what can you
showcase that's new and interesting that
people haven't heard about or seen
before, and how can you have a different
perspective or lens on it that's related
to what people are talking about or
asking? and then you're more likely to
get cited.
>> Yeah, our favorite ways to create that
quality content in that vein is yes,
with data, but also with subject matter
expertise, thought leaderships, and
actually collaborating with other
individuals in the space that our
clients are in to create something new
and unique as you're saying, and
offering the audience that
>> I don't think reputation is a new SEO.
>> It's always been important.
>> Yes. And I think it's elevated in this
new state. It's not the SEO, but I think
it's elevated to a point.
>> What's crazy is that with AI models now,
it is easy to gain them, right?
>> We talked about this earlier.
>> Every not everyone a lot of brands are
creating a blog post on their website.
Maybe they sell shoes and they create a
blog that says, "What are the test
running shoes of 2025?" just so happens
ours is number one and it's working to
get their shoe listed and mentioned
within chat GBT and it's scary because
people are are gaming it and a lot of
users are just taking that at face value
when they get that response back. So, I
know we have a client in the financial
services space and they've gotten a
couple of customers who have said to
them, "Well, I asked ChatJBT a few
different questions and every question I
asked, your company name was Surface, so
I figured you must be the best, right?
I'm I'm ready to sign up." And they do
financial portfolio management. These
people are taking their millions of
dollars and choosing this financial
advisor, this wealth manager because
Chachi PT surfaced their name for lots
of surf like, you know, searches. So
reputation is important and there's like
this weird interweaving of like how
visible are you if you're highly visible
that could positively influence your
reputation right there because the
average searcher whether you're you know
doing a prompt on chatbt or you're
asking something to Google consumers
trust that open AI and Google won't even
show a brand unless they're reputable.
Google historically has probably done a
better job at this, right? Because
they've invested a lot more in their
algorithm and and uh filtering out spam
over the years. Chat GPT, you know,
maybe not quite there yet. So,
>> yeah, the the blurry lines between like
visibility and reputation are
interesting in this AI era that we're
in.
>> Yeah. And I I believe you're going to
end up seeing it where they look at it
as you just need a decent enough
reputation. You don't have to have the
best reputation because a best
reputation doesn't mean you're actually
the best product or service. A company
that's been around for 20 years may have
a struggling reputation, but now there's
a new product that comes into town just
like Chad GPT came into town and Google
and people like well if you look at the
history more people have talked about
Google than they have talked about Chad
GPT over you know the last 20 years but
in a short period of time Chad GBD is
getting tons of press just like a new
company could be getting a lot of
reviews and mentions. So you look at the
velocity. Should you end up uh
positioning that old archaic company
that's been around forever higher than
the company that is just up and coming?
And I think Google has been much better
about this than I would say chat GPT
because their algorithm is much more
easy to manipulate and Google's way more
fine-tuned. Um but you got to look at
reputation as part of the equation.
It really comes down to is a user
satisfied in my opinion and that is the
true signal. The question is can each
platform get enough of that data
>> and which platform does your audience
trust to determine your reputation? Yes.
Cuz we know that Google is just
saturated and catchup is now too. But
when you look at conversion rates by
channel, a lot of brands are seeing very
high conversion rates from AI search.
I'm seeing over 8% from ChachiBT. That's
wild.
>> Social has a really high conversion rate
for a lot of brands. I know for
agencies, right? Like what you're
putting out there on social is really
shaping, you know, your reputation.
>> Do you
>> I think so. I I think that a lot of the
work, a lot of the filming that we've
done putting our thought leadership out
there, people come to us and in the
sales process or after they sign on,
they say, "Oh, yeah. I love all your
content that I've been watching for a
year, two years on LinkedIn, on TikTok,
whatever." And I know I I was just at
Brighton SEO in September, and I'm
forgetting, was it Will Reynolds? I
can't remember. One of the speakers that
I watched who works for a competitor of
ours of ours, they pulled up their
social or their leads by percentage. I
don't know for what time frame. And they
were talking about how social is their
top converting channel. And it's because
these agencies are investing in genuine
thought leadership like exactly what
we're doing here today. And people trust
it. They trust that company because of
what they're seeing on social. And it's
very different. They might not care what
they find on a Google search. Um, but
they they think, "Hey, I've seen some
really good content on LinkedIn, Tik
Tok, where YouTube, wherever it might
be. I trust this brand and I'm going to
engage with them and I'm going to, you
know, maybe get a pitch from them." So,
reputations are shaped by different
platforms today. And I think social is
very, very high in terms of where people
trust information from, right? Right.
There's a lot of great genuine content
on social and and Google and chat GBT
alike have been spammed. There's also a
lot of crap content on social that
people probably don't realize is also
spam. Um, but I think people are
>> less loyal. Right? I said it earlier,
Forbes and Earketer both say that brand
loyalty is on the decline. And that's
because people are like, "Oh, I saw this
person I've been following on TikTok for
three years talk about this product and
then I bought it." They just they trust
them.
I'm more skeptical when it comes to my
purchase decision. And when I'm in that
funnel or buying decision, I'm going to
multiple channels, right? And I don't
just take what I see at the top of a
list as face value. I am skeptical. I
like to double check. I like to ask my
friends. And a lot of my friends in my
age group, they're all going to TikTok
for a lot of this. And so then they give
me their advice because I'm not on
TikTok a lot. But I get through them
information that they found on Tik Tok
about whatever that is and then that
helps me with my decision and it's like
you know what they say 20 plus touch
points now before anyone makes a
decision. I'm in that boat. So but I
know that's not every audience. So when
you're saying the reputation of your
brand in the channel that it matters
with your audience that makes sense. But
then there's a lot of people that are
going all over the place to kind of get
a snapshot to then build whatever that
picture of the reputation is of what
they're seeing on those channels. But
what's interesting about what you said
is it blurs these lines between word of
mouth and social because you're you're
getting a recommendation from another
human, but they might be regurgitating
something they saw on Tik Tok about a
product they never bought, a food they
never ate, a restaurant they've never
been to, but they saw it on Tik Tok and
they trust it enough to regurgitate it
to you even though they may not have had
first person experience.
>> Yeah.
>> It's really interesting.
>> It's just like my wife tells me, you
know, we'll be at a restaurant like,
"Oh, you got to order this dessert. It's
bomb. And she's like, "You don't even
really eat desserts." She's like, "You
tried it?" And I'm like, "No, I saw it
on the internet." But it's the same way.
But I agree that social is important. It
does help build reputation. I think for
us and our company, it's a little bit
different. I know a lot of our customers
have watched our content. And that's why
I asked you, you know, do you really
think so? I think for enterprise brands,
which is where we've been going and
shifting over the years, it's different,
right? You're not going to get a RFP for
a company that wants to spend $10
million with you in agency fees because
of social content.
>> I don't know because we had one of our
larger brands on in the online tax
space. They they came to us because they
saw a webinar that we did on search
everywhere optimization. Now I don't
know if you consider webinar social,
right? It could be its own it its own
group but content people are seeing
online video content um that is getting
us big brands
>> webinars are I consider social more like
the short form videos
>> okay yeah webinars
>> so on that short form video that very
same company you're discussing when we
were in the pitch process now I'm not
saying the person who is making the
decision saw the social video and called
us to have a pitch but the individuals
who are now going to help make that
decision for the company who working
with us or not mentioned that they were
watching our short form videos on social
and they really liked it and it one of
the the PC's was from the social team so
that that tracks but then there was a
couple others who were agreeing with
that as well not from webinar content
but like our actual social media video
content so I I I do believe you have to
be everywhere
>> and that's why I've been creating
content for years but I'll give you a
data point all right so the search
landscape's changed when we used to
focus more on getting website traffic.
You know, we were ranked number one for
terms like digital marketing, online
marketing. We used to so focus on it. Do
you know how much revenue we were
generating from those terms? Anyone you
want to take a guess?
>> No idea.
>> Probably not much based on the look of
your face.
>> Yeah, not much at all. Cuz I've gotten
people being like, where are your
rankings for those key terms? Didn't
drive much revenue.
>> And on the flip side, I used to get more
social engagement when I used to create
content that was mass audience. Mhm.
>> And if you look at the content now that
we create as a company, it's more
narrowed down to specific verticals and
problems that our ideal customers are
facing. It gets way less views and
engagement. I still believe social is
important. I just have a different lens
that I have before in which the key to
building that reputation and to doing
well and having driving you customers is
to do content creation for your ideal
customer profile, your ideal ICP and get
very very granular. It can't just be I'm
looking for a company that is DTOC. I
think that's too broad,
>> right? Like this week the content was
focused around franchises with ideally
50 to 100 plus locations.
I believe most marketers agree that you
can't have silos to really do well
because you need all the information
sharing and a lot of the channels rely
on different uh like AI platforms rely
on Reddit which is social, Google relies
on video content, YouTube, right? You
need digital PR to do well and the list
goes on and on. And if you want to do
well in chat GBT, they scrape Google
whether people like it or not. Hence,
Google made a change where you no longer
scrape a 100red listings per scrape.
You'll scrape uh 10 listings per scrape,
which cost Chad GBT a lot more money.
But so, everyone knows that, right? And
we get that. But the question is is uh
let's redefine it. How would you create
your marketing department knowing that
you can't really have silos? Because
it's unrealistic to have one team that
does everything. Correct. I think that
you need to have a different type of
working relationship with those teams
within an organization where the silos
are more specific and maybe siloed,
right? Like more siloed than others.
I've seen it work at enterprise.
>> Let's break down an example. So, what
would you do with social, for example?
Would that just be one silo? Would you
have a silo just for Tik Tok, one for
long form video, one for each platform?
Like, what would you do?
>> Oh my goodness. I mean, I guess it would
it just depends on the company first and
foremost and then figure out where you
prioritize what channels you need, but I
don't think it needs to be social siloed
by the channel. I think it can be social
media organic, right? And then they all
collaborate in one way or another,
however they are, but that team needs to
collaborate with the other specific
teams. I'm not saying like sparse out
specific subdivisions under each one of
those channels.
>> So, you're still saying paid is a
department, social is a department. All
right. So then we are we we run a
similar model internally at our own
agency. You're in content, you're in
SEO.
>> How do you guys communicate
>> for example of how a company should
ideally communicate and break down
silos? Cuz although we have different
departments, social, content, paid, etc.
We don't have the silo issue internally
cuz we have a team member on each one of
those channels that are leading on that
on that account, right? So our team from
an SEO content DBRR perspective are
always collaborating.
>> Yeah. I think the key that a lot of
businesses are missing is you have to
force collaboration. And what I mean by
that is at a lot we work with a lot of
big enterprises right and this group is
not talking to this group. It could be
social and SEO are not talking. You know
paid and SEO pretend like they're
talking but half the time they're really
not getting anything done. You as a
leader, as a CMO, you have to force
collaboration between all of these
groups. If it were me, I would have a
standing meeting with the sole purpose
to be sharing ideas, talking about what
you're doing, what's working, what's not
working, and force that ongoing
communication and collaboration because
so often we see so many opportunities
that we could help our clients
capitalize on if those groups talked.
And you know what we hear all the time?
Well, we don't really work with that
team or we've tried to work with that
team and it's
>> or they have different goals
>> or different incentives. That's another
problem.
>> Goals and incentives. And I think one
thing that not many people are talking
about right now is that paid and SEO for
whatever reason it seems to be so
challenging to get these departments to
truly collaborate.
>> You talk about it all the time. Oh, you
could maximize your efficiency on paid
if you talk about SEO and SEO could be
learning from paid. And it's it's harder
than it sounds, right? Which is why it
doesn't happen a lot. But with where
paid is headed, which is Pmax and AIAX
are essentially these are AI generated
campaigns. This is what Google is
pushing big time. And a lot of our
clients are scared to get into it
because it's relinquishing control.
>> That's like a black box,
>> right? But it's where things are headed.
And the big thing with this is your SEO
team and your paid team have to
collaborate and communicate. Two
reasons. One, AI overviews are changing
a lot about paid at search, right? If an
AI overview appears, your expected
click-through rate on paid goes down.
When your expected click-through rate
goes down, your CPCs go up because your
quality scores go down. And everybody on
paid is spending more money because of
AI overviews. And your SEO team is every
day we are looking at what queries are
populating AI overviews. Are we ranking?
Are we not ranking? What are the themes
of these AI overviews? How can we adjust
our content to get in there? And your
SEO team has all this gold mine of
information that should be passed on to
your paid team. But if you are not
forcing them to sit in a room virtually
or physically and talk every single week
about what they're seeing, guarantee
they're not actually going to do
anything with that data. But that's only
point number one. Point number two is
with where Pmax and AI Max are headed.
These are AI crawlers, right? Google's
paid bot is going to assess your website
content. They're going to look at your
headings, your body content, your FAQs,
the alt tags of your images, and they
are going to decide what to pull in to
these ads. That, by the way, they're
also deciding where you show up. Is it
YouTube? Is it display? Is it search? If
your content is not optimized, if it's
not well structured, if you're not uh
optimizing for semantic search, you will
not get the ROI from these paid campaign
types in the future once everybody gets
on to these campaign types, which that's
where things are headed. So, there's a
huge opportunity now to get your SEO and
your paid teams in the same room and
talking because your ad dollars are
going to be at stake if you don't do
this sooner than later.
>> No. And companies are spending a lot
more money on things like branded
queries when it comes to bidding. And
it's just like they're not
communicating. And I know we do it where
it's like if you're ranking number one,
we just turn off the bidding. If your
competitor starts bidding, we instantly
start turning back on the bidding. So
then that way you're not burning
dollars. Um but they're not
communicating. And I'm seeing the same
thing with SEO. It's easier to get
conversion data from paid than it is
from SEO. And I don't know why SEOs
don't walk over to their paid or data
analytics team and be like, "Can I have
the conversion data for the best terms?"
All right, cool guys. This is what we're
going to start focusing on because this
is what's driving revenue. Forget the
traffic angle. And I rarely ever see
that, no matter what size organization.
And when I say what size organization, I
very rarely talk to the companies that
are doing like 20, 30, 50 million in
revenue. They tend to be at least nine
figure companies. some, you know, uh,
many of them are multi-billion dollar
organizations, but they just don't talk.
And I think you're right, you got to
force it. And like what you're saying,
you got to put someone in whose job is
to work in the different departments and
bring and
>> them together and just force
collaboration.
Have any of you guys use some of these
new AI browsers?
Well, I have not because I don't have a
Mac, but also on a company computer at
NPD, I don't think you're allowed to
because these browsers are not there yet
in terms of security, what I've heard.
So,
>> beware. Use your personal machine. Don't
jeopardize your company's data.
>> I I've tested uh one of them out
>> and
>> Atlas or what's the other one? Comet.
>> Atlas. I haven't comet yet. Um, and I
would say it's it's okay. But here's the
problem I have with these AI browsers.
Chrome just has everything.
>> And when I mean that it has everything,
it has like your passwords and history
and you know it's secure. Oh, you got
hide the word all the extensions.
>> I think it's a very hard transition to
get people to switch browsers. It's
easier to get them to switch a search
engine. Yes.
>> than it is to get them to switch a
browser. It's like telling someone to
switch a email client like to go from
Gmail to Outlook or Outlook to Gmail.
That is a very hard ask.
>> Or Slack to Teams.
>> Very hard ask. But and and I think a
browser is in that camp.
>> Yeah.
>> I don't think Open AI
and Perplexity and anyone else who wants
to get into this space is going to do
well with the browser game. we already
have existing browsers and unless you do
something just genuinely new and crazy.
I don't see people switching and
Google's going to integrate all the AI
stuff into browsers and then eventually
chat GBT will make it where you can just
integrate into Chrome.
>> Right.
>> Right. Browsers will impact what people
are doing because you can get what
you're looking for wherever without ever
having to go to a website and they can
just pull.
I just think it's surfacing information
in a way like Alexa surfaces information
or Siri does or your car can depending
on the car that you have. It's just
surfacing information wherever you want.
>> And you always have your skeptics, too.
And I think the number of hacking, you
know, type situations uh that happen.
And I forget if it was Comet or um Atlas
that got hacked or jailbroken within 24
hour or 48 hours. And I think you know
people out there have proven both
perplex perplexities comet and open
AAI's Atlas are like not secure and the
minute that this gets you know
publicized because I feel like it's
actually not as widely known maybe
people just aren't
>> No, I I saw that and it's the big thing
is would you log into your bank account
using one of those adverts?
>> Definitely not. So how am I going to get
anything done if I don't trust it to
make purchases correct on my behalf? And
you're always going to have that percent
of the population that is skeptical.
You're going to have the people that are
like, I'm not going to Venmo you. I'm
not putting my bank information
somewhere all the way to the people that
are just like healthfully skeptical. And
because of that, like the adoption will
probably be slow for a very long time.
Well, even with these AI browsers, I
don't think it's going to affect
visibility as negative as most people
think. Just like if you look at majority
of the time and attention right now,
it's not spent from people reading
textbased articles. It's people just
scrolling on their phone and looking at
social content. Yet, we're still able to
figure out visibility. Just like people
like, "Oh, SEO traffic's dying down."
Well, we have customers, a lot of
customers where their total traffic is
down, but because these new channels
bring in a lot of conversions at a
higher rate, their total revenue is
growing for these organizations. I just
think marketers have to shift.
>> Does it mean people won't ever go to
your website again? No, I don't believe
that. I think people still go to
websites. Well, you know, if you have a
100 people going to your website right
now, may it decrease in the future?
Sure. But you just have to adapt. And I
think that's the great thing about being
marketers in this world. I think it's
actually gotten harder for us to do our
jobs, but at the same time, it's made us
more in demand for our customers.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. And I think you're going to have
to market to manin machine, right?
You're going to have a part of your
marketing where you are marketing to
real people that you know have real
interests and then you're going to be
marketing to these machines that just
are trying to figure out what your
website does and you know complete an
action on behalf of people and again
we're not there right now and it's going
to take a while but it's something worth
thinking about in the future.
>> But check this out. You guys have
already been marketing to man and
machines.
>> True.
>> Okay. So people talk about like agents.
Oh you got to have an agent market to
agent. We've been marketing whether it's
our app store company or division or
through SEO or social media. We market
to algorithms to showcase our client
stuff and then a human interacts with
it. What's the difference from then uh
AI agent or some machine pulling from
what we already marketed to that's
ranking at the top because we did it.
>> Well, one difference will be the
importance of data feeds, right? Like
the way that you maintain your data feed
is all for machines. your users are
never going to see something like that.
So,
>> and I think a lot of brands will need to
like maximize, you know, filling out
every part of their data feed in the
future. Again, we're not there.
>> No, you have to be more thorough because
the machine will look at everything
while the human will just want the key
takeaways.
>> Yeah. But at the same time from a
marketing perspective we've adapted and
already shifted to marketing to
machines. Whether it's a human at the
end that looks at the information or
another machine will continually adapt.
>> Yep.
>> Marketing is similar but it continually
evolves and I think that doesn't change.
Hey guys, thanks for watching this first
episode. Please comment which topic
would you like us to cover on the next
one. See you.